Uh I'm still not remotely recovered. I'm
still really tired.
But um
we're going to try to do a couple things
today.
I mostly just want to mess with the room
scape and honestly.
I think it's going to be a really good
end for um buffer five research once
it's stable.
So, curriculum.
I don't actually know how we made these
things work to be honest with you.
But I know what waves I want to start it
at.
I might even go do the inferno on
leagues um later today as a refresher
we'll see.
I don't think I'm quite
able to do it yet.
and 69 is what we need.
Just see what this does.
Real quick.
Oh, let me catch up on this. Uh Robin
will PR.
All right, I'll look at it with you in a
niche.
Morning muffin. Hey, I saw your
environment.
Nice job with that. I am looking forward
to the PR.
And damn it, no one video has some eye.
Hang on. I reboot the container.
So fired from work I feel. What are you
cooking today? Uh we're working on
the room scape inferno
uh sim environment and some experiments
on it.
Well, this is not the sim obviously.
This is the actual game.
I'm thinking if we should just like go.
Maybe we just go look at Valos branch.
Do you have a recommended way to use 401
a Mac?
It's a little annoying Arch because
the model format for torch
and native is different.
You kind of have to have SSH
working with that if you want to be able
to render stuff.
Yeah, that's a really annoying work
through workflow that you have cuz
rendering is really important for debug.
Yeah, so I think right now it's not
resetting potions. You see how it's
always on zero potions remaining.
I'm pretty sure it's not getting them
reset between
runs which is really bad.
Yeah.
I'm going to just be stupid about this.
Your access
Yeah.
Mac OS
Yeah, you just need a GPU machine, man.
It's just really tough to do RL dev
without one.
It actually uh
One of the things I was toying with was
coming up with a way to do a nice CPU
back end for Puffer.
I might end up doing that in Puffer 5,
we'll see.
It's can't be the priority. I have like
core research to do.
But I will consider that.
The whole Mac thing is just so sad to
me.
How the hell did that shitty company
convince everybody
they should be using their garbage
hardware?
Lower efficiency.
Yeah, if you care about the like the
battery, but then you have very good
battery for something you got it
documented that it's [ __ ] for dev.
I honestly think just like the best
thing to do is just have a
have a reasonable desktop.
What is perf and episode return?
Uh perf is zero to one normalized metric
for the end of that is required by the
API because it used by constellation.
Uh episode return is sum of rewards over
the episode
or over the like length of the play of a
single trajectory.
Not required but highly recommended.
Didn't I think I just added them for
you, didn't I?
I propose that office hours be held um
uh
over a uh
over a rated leagues.
So you're probably good percentages
then.
Meaning of perf?
Yep, it's just a metric for your end but
it needs to be zero to one normalized so
it fits nicely on constellation.
I mean at least assuming you want your
end to be used as natural benchmark.
rewards
Yes, exactly.
Perf is the thing you actually care
about. It shouldn't just be like
it shouldn't be dependent on reward
magnitudes, etc.
What the heck is wrong with the
branches, man?
definitions of perf. One if you solve
the end, zero if you don't solve the
end, some smooth thing of progress
between.
Win rate is a good one.
Um
or divided by max score.
>> Okay, he added some gear.
He doesn't have it. It just says Ellie.
Wait.
Do I have an Ellie on? Do I not have an
Ellie on?
Do I have gear
Oh, I do have an Ellie on.
How much space do I have though? I have
one more spot, right?
Start wave is one.
Good.
Let's go figure out if the brew bug is
back, bro.
How the hell's this thing going to kill
me then?
Very slowly.
Guess we'll just wait. I just want to
see if the potions are put back.
Wait.
This is getting to Zuk.
Why doesn't Nen know how to do Zuk if
it's getting to Zuk?
Okay, so this is logging correctly even
though it's starting at the boss.
It only logs the ones that start from
very start to the boss. So, it is
getting all the way to Zuk.
Out of bounds.
Uh, I can add that to the queue today.
I had a few things to take care of. Let
me finish this up. I think I got to look
at Archer's end, and then if I get to
that, I can get to that.
I got very limited brain cells
available.
plasma
I always think like I'll take a few
days, maybe a week off after release,
and it always just ends up being way
longer, no matter what.
Yeah, this should be decent inferno
model.
All right.
I think that's good.
New sweep is running. I should have done
that yesterday, but I just didn't have
the uh
Archie, you still there? If so, I can
look at your thing in a moment. I want
to grab a drink, but I can look at your
thing
if you're still there.
>> Apparently I've been muted.
Um
I got sounds good Jess, like that will
be very useful soon. We have a bunch of
projects that are going to depend on
self play.
That'll let us do a lot of new stuff.
I'm going to have to review that once
I'm properly fresh again.
Lots of stuff to review.
And I'm still pretty tired. Kind of just
doing some basic stuff
and uh helping me integrate a couple
projects.
Scaling was one. That is something I've
wanted to work on Jess.
There's so much engine stuff to do.
Okay. I got confused cuz I thought this
was a different Michael.
I've read this a couple of times and I
still don't understand like
result.
I actually don't know if there's
anything useful here then.
Really likes to play one line at a time.
Hmm.
Let me just re-
Wait, 8192.
No, it's not that it's just bad work
yes, it's just like not
useful in the way that I thought it
would be.
Oh, it's just cranking the replay ratio
because the end of it is low, isn't it?
Hello.
Because it's optimizing for wall clock
train speed, right?
So
So if the end samples are free yes,
then you would always rather have fresh
data.
But if end of samples are expensive,
then you start trying to use the data
reuse the data a couple of times, which
is why we'll crank up replay ratio.
That's just waste less time waiting on
the end.
Current agenda.
Um
I'm kind of just messing around with
this Runescape Inferno simulator.
I ran us I have a sweep going on it, but
I'm just sort of playing with it to make
sure everything is working.
So this is the main new benchmark and
that I want to play with for um the next
code version.
But then again, it's kind of slow
because the hyper parameters have set it
to be slow.
Well, we will see if just training it
for a longer with these parameters does
better.
And we'll we'll see if this does better
now with just longer training.
Uh one of the irritating things about
the
cosine annealing learning rate schedule
is that you can't really just make runs
longer
and have them always work the way you
think.
Interesting read. Familiar with ML.
Keep learning new to RL. Any
recommendations?
Yeah, I have a ton of articles on
exactly that. If you just check
just check my Twitter.
Like this is all technical art. Like
this is right here. This is all the
engineering on 4.0.
Um this is the new soda architecture
that we use for everything. Here's our
hyper viz.
Here's our ridiculously fast training.
Here's a quick overview.
And then we have general guides with
links to my other material and also
material by other people in here.
I mean the easiest really way to get
started is to just
um
make a simple end-to-end PR it.
You learn a lot doing that.
Oh, yeah. I have this bookmarked from
before.
Go look at this real quick.
Is this just training for longer?
You see it's actually it's run for
longer, but it's it's at a worse wave
with the same hypers.
Not because of the way that we do
learning rate annealing.
Oh, yeah. discord.gg/puffer and also
feed the puffer a star on GitHub.
He likes stars.
Am I stupid or is this just a one-step
bootstrap?
>> Yeah, I'm not getting good vibes from
this paper.
For eval time?
Or else easier? No, it's much harder.
Much harder because you don't have one
problem.
Like the language modeling problem is
basically one problem.
You're fitting laws to the problem of
modeling language. Or well, you have a
million domain-specific problems.
Vastly different scaling.
I don't see why you just I don't see why
you would just
You would just use the same
sampling as you use at train time.
Does worse is funny. You train it for
longer and it literally does worse.
Each user would develop a sense of
papers are good and what aren't.
Here.
Their baseline is [ __ ] DQN.
They've got these control experiments.
Where like nobody bothers to actually
try to make PPO work.
And then they've got Minotaur with again
DQN.
It also the met the method itself is
very implausible.
Like it's pretty implausible that this
thing works.
I don't know, Liber. Maybe it's kind of
lazy shitty content.
Unless I'm missing something super
obvious.
Liberty, I've only been doing low-level
dev for like 2 years.
Since I finished PhD.
Okay, this is a stupid [ __ ]
distinction.
I think that you save um
You save a forward pass with this, which
is kind of nice.
But I don't think this is actually
useful.
You're not getting 100 mil on a GPU on
like a reasonable net architecture. You
have to make the net super tiny and the
um
the model. Like when the net's super
tiny and the batch size gigantic, I'm
sure.
It caps at around 20 mil for useful
parameters
from what we've seen.
It's an interesting idea and I sort of
thought about like whether you could do
this.
Nice to have a name of a thing to put to
it, but um
I think this just gives you the same
stale data problem.
It also pushes you towards really large
numbers of ends.
No, welcome.
Yeah, 4.0 is stable now, man.
4.0 is official release
as of like 2 3 weeks ago.
That's a very annoying property here of
um
nailing.
params
See, this is also ridiculously low clip
co-eff.
And oh, okay, I see it.
Yeah, these are not values that you
want.
>> What happens if I clip this to 0.1
instead?
And every single time you see like a
claim like this, it's like, "Oh, yeah,
we redefined all the words."
Um, or like we have defined all the
words to mean the thing that makes us
look good, but not actually to mean the
thing that matters that you care about.
Like this is not online in the sense
that matters.
I'm curious just to see how stable this
is this clip this clip parameter.
It's definitely doing something screwy
with this sweep.
We can forgive this, this.
Like this, we can forgive these
because the end of this is just not fast
enough.
This one's really nice and makes sense
actually.
I think the rest of these just are
generally fine.
This does anything super different, we
might have to rerun this sweep with
these.
We'll see.
I haven't even gotten any good results
out of this yet, have we?
Wave 58, that's probably just the
baseline.
All right, I think I am going to
relaunch this then.
Because I don't like that it's finding
these really shitty
clip collabs.
Now, the sweep algorithm is a good
guess.
That's it.
Does anybody have open PRs or things
that they wanted me to look at?
Quite tired today. I think I'm just
going to go for um
go for a little run. If not, then chill.
Let this sweep and um kind of just
passively get
some better Inferno results over the
next few days.
Pupper saw Sokoban.
Uh
Let me see if I have the results for you
on that.
Yeah, so we got to what is this? 56%
solve rate on the medium tasks so far.
With the just like the defaults plus
hyper param sweep.
I think Pupper 5 will also help a lot
with exploration tasks.
Like this, Inferno mazes,
2048, um
It's like a small set of tasks I think
that we're going to end up using a lot
for
the new 501 research.
Archie's It's not Archie's PR crit. I
think I I messed it up. It's um Anish.
As uh the Dr. Mario end, not Arch.
I think.
I don't know.
Inferno like OSRS. Oh, yeah, you haven't
seen it? I can show this off real quick.
Uh we might have a decent policy loaded.
I kind of just pulled something that
messes it up.
Cuz we have something that'll do wave 1
to 62, but the latest PR messed up the
attack animation, so it crashes when you
attack with I think mage.
I'll show this in though.
Maybe bow will work.
I think I can play if I just bow.
It has all the waves.
Just um do like this.
one
And I now switch to bow.
Oh, yeah, I can't attack.
Apparently the attack the attack
animation got messed up.
I don't know. I can try to very badly
prayer flick wave 63.
I think they're same ticked.
They're same tick time just then.
Latest PR broke it. Cuz I think um Vault
added
He added a new setup. Oh, for some
reason
It seems like it can barrage.
I think this is just a random policy
though.
Yeah.
Yeah, Vault added an Ellie Invertis.
And um I think some of the animations
got messed up.
And projectile models somehow it's
missing the dragon arrow models. I don't
know.
I highly doubt somebody RL call a week
one, man.
Most of the people doing that stuff are
like
not act like they don't actually know
what they're doing.
And that's actually kind of hard for RL.
And no, for reference I do not bot the
game.
Like it's my favorite game. I don't want
to ruin it.
I do this for research purposes.
This is the League Zult on the other
window.
I don't have a policy for it, but I can
probably play it.
Why don't we just train a quick policy?
It won't be that hard.
I can show you guys. Then I'll end
stream after I show you.
Cuz I want to see it play anyways, the
the latest model.
Let's make sure we actually train
something like semi-decent though.
If anything I'd be more than happy to
talk to the um
to their anti-cheat about this stuff and
like how they can potentially
detect some of it.
But I don't think that your typical
people are going to be using this for
bots. It's It's mostly just people
writing really dumb scripts.
up
like
I'm running my Mac.
I'm MSCP.
All right, so this is now on wave 49. I
think we can get it to wave like
high 50s, low 60s with the current
model.
And I'll pull this and we can look at it
and watch it play.
Um
You should check out we actually have uh
It's cool actually. I can tell you about
this because the client decided to open
source it.
So, we have this env.
It's more for um
compute market, but there is an energy
market on it as well.
So, yeah, if you look at some of the
stuff in this repo
we actually do some pretty similar
stuff.
You can do it. It works.
I mean you just the thing with it being
Pareto optimal, right? Is like
you have to have some preference between
those two things.
Like you could just optimize it with a
whole bunch of different reward balances
and draw the curve if you'd want.
It's fast enough.
Like multi-objective in general
when there's not a fixed trade-off
between them, you can kind of just like
train on both and it'll just work.
A lot of that stuff that used to be
really mysterious kind of now just
works. Like you don't even need custom
methods for multi-objective. It just
works.
I don't know what you mean by MoMA
though. Multi-objective
multi-agent maybe?
Raw real-world data.
Well, you don't end up training on raw
real-world data because you're doing RL,
right? So, you're doing it in sim.
You're still going to be building a good
sim.
Low data regime RL I don't think is like
I generally don't think is worth doing.
Can solve the problem, but solve it in a
high data regime in sim and then make
the sim good.
Okay, I just saw Yeah, so it's actually
it has some of the some of the trials
are going from level
wave one all the way to Zuk.
Sim is the behavior inside.
Wait, what do you mean the is behavior
inside windows of rollout?
Like you need an actual sim
for usage and degradation.
The sim is like going to actually be a
fixed thing that you can run fast.
Agent's behavior will be optimized. Oh,
I see.
Uh we've done that sort of thing before
as well.
You can do that. You'd be surprised how
easily you can overfit that type of a
thing.
Cuz the problem is you can't actually
see
like you can't actually see
um
when the agent behavior deviates from
your data, you can't actually sim what
happens, right?
Let me pull this checkpoint so we can
watch this in the background quick.
There we go.
Now we can watch it.
One year for validation. And
seasonal patterns, yeah.
I mean, we've done projects like that.
We have done some work in finance and
commerce.
Um
you can do it, but then of course like
the question that
everybody has like, "Okay, well, how's
it do outside of the data? How's it do
on like weird distributions we haven't
looked at?" We can't actually evaluate
how the agent does, right? We can only
really evaluate against the fixed
trajectories that we know, which is more
of an imitation setup than anything.
DPO making hyper parameters for
preference profiles.
Yeah, you don't want to use a custom
multi-objective algorithm. That [ __ ]
doesn't work.
Preference profiles plus sweep is
generally good.
Assuming you have a fast end cuz you do
need to resweep hypers quite a bit.
I mean, take it from me as a source. The
fancy RL algorithms just do not work as
they're written on paper.
Like the cleanest form of
multi-objective that works is just goal
conditioned.
So, if you want, you can even train you
could train one policy
that is capable of doing that trade-off
for you and like you know, optimizing
one objective or the other
just by goal conditioning and
randomizing during training.
And then using the standard algorithm.
You can get multi-objective to work and
that will work a lot better than using
one of those fancy algorithms that's
slow and doesn't actually work as
written.
>> Makes sense.
But you don't have to just train on
50/50. You can literally every rollout,
you can pick a different split if you
want.
And then condition the agent's behavior
on that split, right? You can give it
the split, the preference profile as an
observation
that is the same for one rollout and
then the resets and the randomized each
rollout.
And then the reward function
is going to be according to that
difference.
And it will actually learn to give you a
policy
um that trades off those objectives per
episode.
It's quite a clean formulation.
We've done it before for um
like drone flying with different
objectives.
It's quite simple to get working.
Doesn't require to change the algorithm
whatsoever.
Why we blow piping it? Uh cuz there's
just one of them. That's fine.
I think this is the best setup we give
it, right?
Right, something quick and proper.
But well, I think you're going to want
the sim and proper regardless, aren't
you?
I do notice it's used all of its fast
and potions way too early.
Yeah, it's only on wave 15 and it's used
pretty much all its brews as well.
Which is weird cuz we had other policies
before that weren't so bad like on on
their supply usage.
I think I'm pretty much going to call it
though, guys. Um
I'll go get up.
Maybe get a run in depending how hot it
is outside.
And uh
fill up after that. We have a nice sweep
running on this.
So hopefully
we should be able to get some reasonable
results.
Yeah, there you go.
We'll be able to get some reasonable
results on this.
Quite good. I think a few more
iterations and we'll have it solved.
You just start playing around with
Puffer a little bit. Make like a little
toy in. You'll learn quite a bit from
it.
Like this end of year was literally one
contributor porting
um porting private server code.
And then I've just helped a little bit
with RL, not much.
Default network.
Default hyper param sweep stuff, like
nothing even custom.
You're buying weekend or Monday? Sounds
good, Arch.
All right, folks.
Um I'm going to call it. Star Puffer on
GitHub
if you haven't already. It's free. It
really helps me out. You can follow me
on X if you want more RL content.
Other than that, join discord.gg/puffer.
Involve the dev.
And uh yeah, we'll probably pick this
project back up a little bit tomorrow.